# SNHU CS465 (Bryan Chan 2025)

## Architecture
### Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA). Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
- As I was working on the Travlr full stack applications, I did notice various differences between the Express project and the Angular project. For instance, the Express application utilized handlebars for the front end. In addition, the app also used the JavaScript language for many of its code. The Express app came with its own API, which would make requests to MongoDB. However, the Express project did not dynamically render the trips. In terms of its user interface, the project was not a single page application. The project did not prioritze which data should be rendered initally, which caused the program to have multiple pages. Visually speaking, the app looked like a traditional traveling book website.
- Things were much different for Angular. For example, Angular utilized reusable componets for its front end. Instead of pure JS, the program used TypeScript in order to provide type safety. Like the Express app, the program also had its own custom API, which would allow the users to make GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE requests. It should be noted that unlike the Express app, the Angular app allows the user to create an account, login, add trips, delete trips, and update trips. The program also dynamically rendered the trips. As a result, the app is a single page application. When it comes to the visual side of things, the Angular application is more modern and minimalisitic compared to the Express app.
- MongoDB was chosen as the program's database, since it allows the data to be organized in a simple document (JSON). The NoSQL design of the database is a good choice for programs with simple functionalities such as the Travlr program. MongoDB is also hosted on the web, which eliminates the need for the program's data to be hosted locally. 

## Functionality
### How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
- JSON is meant to organize data, not creating programs. This is the main point of difference between JS and JSON. TypeScript, which is JS with type safety, is used in the Angular application to make GET requests to MongoDB, which results in the API returning a JSON response. This JSON response can then be extracted by the program, which will then result in trips being dynamically rendered. Angular, which utilizes components for the UI, allows the programs to be simple page applications, since it forces the developer to prioritize which information should be rendered initially. 

## Testing
### Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
- The program utilizes four HTTP requests: GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE. The GET method is used to make a request to the API, in order to recieve a response. POST is used to add new trips to the MongoDB database. PUT updates the contents of the trips in MongoDB. Lastly, DELETE is used to remove trips from the database.
- Security is utilized in the application in the form of authentication tokens creating during the account creation process, in order to validate the user's indentity.
- When it came to testing the API, I utilized Postman in order to make API requests with the various HTTP headers. In addition to this, I checked Compass from MongoDB, in order to verify that the database was updated after the API's successful request/response.

## Reflection
### How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
- This course has enabled me to work with the various tools, such as Postman and Compass, which will allow me to develop full stack applications that can be used by many users. When it comes to relevant skills in the career field, learning about security in the form of authentication tokens was very important, since a compromised app can result in great business loss for companies.
